#              MPLS

Scope:
In the Service Provider scope of infrastructure, there is a requirement to move traffic from a lot of different clients (hence prefixes) to a lot of other clients (and hence prefixes).
Initially to solve that, every router everywhere have to know how to reach each of the prefixes in the Internet - that is too resource consuming.
One solution is to build tunnels between end routers - that allow transit routers to have no infomation about end prefixes, they only have to know how to reach the edge routers.

MPLS is one of the options to build such tunnels.

MPLS (Multi-Protocol Label Switching) - a technology allowing traffic to be forwarded in a tunnel-like manner with the use of labels (MPLS L2 header is inserted between 802.1q and L3 info) with provision of minimum details apart from labels to transit nodes for the remote prefixes.
    LDP (Label Distribution Protocol) - a labeling protocol. Whenever turned on, Router introduces sets a label ("Local Label") for each IGP prefix on a RIB (1 prefix = 1 label, prefix can be reachable through different next-hops, that's still 1 label)
            Then router shares this label to all the LDP neighbors and that label becomes an "Outgoint label" for them in their MPLS Forwarding-table. "Pop Label" - 
     (!)LDP is kind of Legacy as of 2020 - Either OSPF or ISIS is used for label distribution (SEGMENT ROUTING).

Configuration:
0. IGP reachability have to be configured before proceeding with LDP.
1. "mpls ldp router-id <interface>" - define LDP Router-ID which will act as a connection source
2. "mpls label protocol <ldp/tdp>" - enable label protocol to be either LDP or TDP
3. "mpls ip" on the interface - enable MPLS
    After that step, LDP Hello messages to 224.0.0.2 will be spammed. From Source port TCP/646(!!!) to Dest port TCP/646(!!!)
    In LDP Hello, IPv4 Transport address is shared and Router-ID
4. After enabling MPLS on both sides, LDP neighborship will be formed if there is a 2-way reachability.
5. Now for all the IGP received routes, LDP assignes a Label which is used on the traffic forwarding.

"show mpls forwarding" - see MPLS Table
All the labels are also stored in the CEF.

MPLS Optimization
First point is not to label the transit prefixes (the ones used for p2p connections between routers, transit). And only to label the loopbacks. That would be enough.
    1. "no mpls ldp advertise-labels" - disable label generation
    2. Create ACL and defing all the loopbacks there
    3. "mpls ldp advertise-labels for <ACL-name>" - enable label generation for ACL
    4. Now traffic to loopbacks is going with labeled hops, traffic to transit networks (not defined in ACL) will go without labels.

Now it's possible to build a BGP session(-s) between any routers (loopbacks are reachable) and therefore it's possible to announce any routes only to nodes that should know about them (only reachability to Loopbacks are required).
And it works because even though the Destination IP for packets will be known only to first and last routers and UNKNOWN for transit routers, MPLS Label allows traffic to be forwarded further on the transit (Label lookup happen on every hop to determine the next hop)

Router receives packet for remote DestinationIP, checks the routing table, assignes a Label and forward according to MPLS table.
    Next, transit router, receives packet, sees MPLS label, checks it's MPLS table, SWAPs the label to it's own one and forward the packer further.
    When end router receives the packet, there is no label already as no MPLS label is set for end destination, it just forward the packet to DestinationIP.

Possible MPLS Issues
    1. Since LDP runs over IGP (e.g. OSPF). If OSPF drops on some segment, LDP also drops and reconverges.
       When OSPF goes back up, it'll reconverge back while LDP is still not ready (it relies on OSPF to have a stable connectivity).
       During the LDP reconvergence, upstream router will drop MPLS related traffic since MPLS labels aren't getting assigned.
       To fix - "mpls ldp sync" under OSPF process config - interface is announced as "non-transit" while OSPF is up but LDP neighborship is not established yet.
            Metric is forcefully set to 65535 (maximum).
    2. ~~~

#MPLS L3VPN

Usually MPLS is used in carrier networks and carries internal subnets in itself. Therefore there might be many of the same prefixes (10.1.1.0/24 e.g.)
    To forward many of similar prefixes, VRFs are used.

VRF is basically a different Routing Table on the router.
    VRF is specified with the Route Distinguisher value (RD). It can be 0-65535:0-65535 (16 bytes) 
    Let's pick VRF "EXAMPLE" with RD of 100:100 and "PEPOPE" with RD of 200:200
        Route to 1.2.3.4/32 in EXAMPLE will look like 100:100:1.2.3.4/32
        Route to 1.2.3.4/32 in PEPOPE will look like 200:200.1.2.3.4/32
    And like that, these will be two different routes

(!)Prefix with RD in front of it is called VPNv4 PREFIX
(!) RD + IPv4 = VPNv4

To prevent ourselves from creating every VRFs on all transit routers, BGP with VPNv4 AF can be used to carry the NLRI from one PE to another to provide the prefix between customer devices.
    To make sure devices on each end are aware which route should be corresponded to which VRF, ROUTE TARGET (RT) parameter is used.
    RT is attached with the prefix advertisement as a community and other side accepts the prefix if it's RT matches the value configured in VRF RT import/export.
    Configure import RT under the VRF definition to make sure prefix is received to correct VRF.
        Import RT is to receive prefixes with that RT
        Export RT is to export prefixes with that RT

    For prefixes received through BGP, prefixes initial RD doesn't matter. It gets replaced by corresponding VRF on the receiving router by receiving VRF.
    If R1 sent 100:100:1.1.1.1/32 through BGP to R2's VRF with RD 200:200, prefix will change to 200:200:1.1.1.1/32 on R2 and will be accessible through R1.


